# Get information about the current tutorial

Returns information about the current tutorial. Ideally the function
should be evaluated in a Shiny context, i.e. in a chunk with option
`context = "server"`. Note that the values of this function may change
after the tutorial is completely initialized. If called in a
non-reactive context, `get_tutorial_info()` will return default values
that will most likely correspond to the current tutorial.

## Usage

``` r
get_tutorial_info(
  tutorial_path = NULL,
  session = getDefaultReactiveDomain(),
  ...,
  encoding = "UTF-8"
)
```

## Arguments

- tutorial_path:

  Path to a tutorial `.Rmd` source file

- session:

  The `session` object passed to function given to `shinyServer.`
  Default is
  [`shiny::getDefaultReactiveDomain()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/shiny/man/domains.html).

- ...:

  Arguments passed on to
  [`rmarkdown::render`](https://pkgs.rstudio.com/rmarkdown/reference/render.html)

  `output_format`

  :   The R Markdown output format to convert to. The option `"all"`
      will render all formats defined within the file. The option can be
      the name of a format (e.g. `"html_document"`) and that will render
      the document to that single format. One can also use a vector of
      format names to render to multiple formats. Alternatively, you can
      pass an output format object (e.g. `html_document()`). If using
      `NULL` then the output format is the first one defined in the YAML
      frontmatter in the input file (this defaults to HTML if no format
      is specified there). If you pass an output format object to
      `output_format`, the options specified in the YAML header or
      `_output.yml` will be ignored and you must explicitly set all the
      options you want when you construct the object. If you pass a
      string, the output format will use the output parameters in the
      YAML header or `_output.yml`.

  `output_dir`

  :   The output directory for the rendered `output_file`. This allows
      for a choice of an alternate directory to which the output file
      should be written (the default output directory of that of the
      input file). If a path is provided with a filename in
      `output_file` the directory specified here will take precedence.
      Please note that any directory path provided will create any
      necessary directories if they do not exist.

  `output_options`

  :   List of output options that can override the options specified in
      metadata (e.g. could be used to force `self_contained` or
      `mathjax = "local"`). Note that this is only valid when the output
      format is read from metadata (i.e. not a custom format object
      passed to `output_format`).

  `output_yaml`

  :   Paths to YAML files specifying output formats and their
      configurations. The first existing one is used. If none are found,
      then the function searches YAML files specified to the
      `output_yaml` top-level parameter in the YAML front matter,
      \_output.yml or \_output.yaml, and then uses the first existing
      one.

  `intermediates_dir`

  :   Intermediate files directory. If a path is specified then
      intermediate files will be written to that path. If `NULL`,
      intermediate files are written to the same directory as the input
      file.

  `knit_root_dir`

  :   The working directory in which to knit the document; uses knitr's
      `root.dir` knit option. If `NULL` then the behavior will follow
      the knitr default, which is to use the parent directory of the
      document.

  `runtime`

  :   The runtime target for rendering. The `static` option produces
      output intended for static files; `shiny` produces output suitable
      for use in a Shiny document (see
      [`run`](https://pkgs.rstudio.com/rmarkdown/reference/run.html)).
      The default, `auto`, allows the `runtime` target specified in the
      YAML metadata to take precedence, and renders for a `static`
      runtime target otherwise.

  `clean`

  :   Using `TRUE` will clean intermediate files that are created during
      rendering.

  `params`

  :   A list of named parameters that override custom params specified
      within the YAML front-matter (e.g. specifying a dataset to read or
      a date range to confine output to). Pass `"ask"` to start an
      application that helps guide parameter configuration.

  `knit_meta`

  :   (This option is reserved for expert use.) Metadata generated by
      knitr.

  `envir`

  :   The environment in which the code chunks are to be evaluated
      during knitting (can use
      [`new.env()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/environment.html) to
      guarantee an empty new environment).

  `run_pandoc`

  :   An option for whether to run pandoc to convert Markdown output.

  `quiet`

  :   An option to suppress printing during rendering from knitr, pandoc
      command line and others. To only suppress printing of the last
      "Output created: " message, you can set `rmarkdown.render.message`
      to `FALSE`

- encoding:

  Ignored. The encoding is always assumed to be UTF-8.

## Value

Returns an ordinary list with the following elements:

- `tutorial_id`: The ID of the tutorial, auto-generated or from the
  `tutorial$id` key in the tutorial's YAML front matter.

- `tutorial_version`: The tutorial's version, auto-generated or from the
  `tutorial$version` key in the tutorial's YAML front matter.

- `items`: A data frame with columns `order`, `label`, `type` and `data`
  describing the items (questions and exercises) in the tutorial. This
  item is only available in the running tutorial, not during the static
  pre-render step.

- `user_id`: The current user.

- `learnr_version`: The current version of the running learnr package.

- `language`: The current language of the tutorial, either as chosen by
  the user or as specified in the `language` item of the YAML front
  matter.

## See also

[`get_tutorial_state()`](https://pkgs.rstudio.com/learnr/dev/reference/get_tutorial_state.md)

## Examples

``` r
if (rmarkdown::pandoc_available("1.4")) {
  tutorial_rmd <- local({
    # Use a temp copy of "Hello learnr" tutorial for this example
    src <- system.file(
      "tutorials", "hello", "hello.Rmd", package = "learnr"
    )
    dest <- tempfile(fileext = ".Rmd")
    file.copy(src, dest)
    dest
  })

  # ---- This is the example! ------------ #
  info <- get_tutorial_info(tutorial_rmd)
  # -------------------------------------- #

  # clean up the temporary Rmd used in this example
  unlink(tutorial_rmd)

  # This is the result of the example
  info
}
#> $tutorial_id
#> [1] "/tmp/RtmpNknibZ"
#> 
#> $tutorial_version
#> [1] "1.0"
#> 
#> $items
#> # A tibble: 1 × 4
#>   order label    type     data  
#>   <int> <chr>    <chr>    <list>
#> 1     1 addition exercise <r>   
#> 
#> $user_id
#> [1] "runner"
#> 
#> $learnr_version
#> [1] "0.11.5.9000"
#> 
#> $language
#> [1] "en"
#> 
```
